# Wikidata Update Statuses
_note : this file is automatically generated from the source code._

This is the list of possible statuses that the ISSNbot returns in its output log file.

## CREATED
  - definition : Indicates that a new statement was created in Wikidata.
  - order/code : 1

## UPDATED
  - definition : Indicate previously synchronized value is updated; for example if a language value was previously synchronized, and is updated in the ISSN registry, the bot will update the previous value instead of creating a new one. This is the case for title and language
  - order/code : 2

## ADDED_REFERENCE
  - definition : Indicates that the value already existed in Wikidata, and the ISSN reference was added on it
  - order/code : 3

## ADDED_QUALIFIER
  - definition : Indicates that the value already existed in Wikidata, and qualifiers were added on it. This can happen only on ISSN statements.
  - order/code : 4

## UPDATED_QUALIFIER
  - definition : Indicates that the value already existed in Wikidata, with different qualifiers, and qualifiers were updated on it. For example if a distribution format or key title was previously synchronized on an ISSN statement, and is updated in the ISSN registry, the bot will update the previous value of the qualifier. This happens only on ISSN statements.
  - order/code : 5

## UPDATE_REFERENCE
  - definition : Indicates that the ISSN reference value on the statement was updated. This can happen only if the logic of selecting a reference ISSN in the input data changes.
  - order/code : 6

## NOTHING
  - definition : Indicates no update took place.
  - order/code : 7

## EMPTY
  - definition : Indicates the value was not provided in the input data.
  - order/code : 8

## MIXED
  - definition : Indicates mixed updates in case of multiple values. This can happen only on official websites and cancelled ISSNs, where multiple values are possible. In that case, the status for each value is also given in the log file in parenthesis.
  - order/code : 10

## SET_DEPRECATED
  - definition : Indicates that a plain ISSN statement in Wikidata was indicated as a Cancelled ISSN in the input file. In that case the ISSN statement is marked as deprecated in Wikidata.
  - order/code : 11

## PREVIOUS_VALUE_DEPRECATED
  - definition : Indicates that an existing statement in Wikidata was marked with a deprecated rank. This happens for cases where we want historical values to be tracked in Wikidata, and not simply deleted, that is for the place of publications and the official website. A change in these values in the input data is not considered as fixing an error, but as a true change in the history of the serial : the publisher changed, so the place of publication chnaged, or the website URL changed. In that case previously synchronized values are marked as deprecated, instead of being deleted.
  - order/code : 100

## PREVIOUS_VALUE_DELETED
  - definition : Indicates a previous value was deleted. This can be the case only for ISSNs that were previously synchronized by the bot; in the case an ISSN-L family changes in the ISSN registry and the associated ISSNs are not the same as the one previously synchronized, then these ISSNs are deleted from the item.
  - order/code : 101

## PREVIOUS_VALUE_UNTOUCHED
  - definition : Indicates a previous value was found in Wikidata, but was left untouched.
  - order/code : 102

## PREVIOUS_VALUE_NONE
  - definition : Indicates no previous value was found in Wikidata.
  - order/code : 103

